It was a lot, but all of these
things will make sense in practice.
And the goal with that was just to give
you a really deep primer on some of these
concepts so when we're seeing them in our
project you're not completely overwhelmed.
But feel free to stop me and
ask questions along the way.
Let's talk about what
we're building today.
So we're gonna build a two-page
website for a conference.
So we'll have the homepage, it's kind of
like a big header that tells you the date,
it's gonna have two buttons and
navigation at the top.
And then the second page for speakers
that have a speaker image, their name,
company, and bio.
There are some design
files that are linked.
The easiest way to get here is to go to
the repository, which is that repo here,
the
https//github.com/emmabostian/fem-css-fou-
ndations.
So if you go to this repository there
will be a link to the design files, and
I will walk you through
those in just a second.
So hopefully you're able to get
onto this repo that I've made here.
All of the information that
you're gonna need, whether it's
links to the slides here, or the course
information on the website is here.
We'll take a look at
the design in just a second.
The instructions for forking and
cloning are also in here,
we'll do that together live.
But just as a note, there are six
branches that you'll see here.
So if you ever get lost,
after the end of each chapter you can
check out the next chapter's named branch.
And you'll have the code at
the starting point of that chapter.
I've also included a couple of
editor settings if you're using
Visual Studio Code.
These are the ones that I have,
it's my theme, my font, etc.
So feel free to go ahead and
check that out as well.
Let's first talk about
what we're building today.
So there is a link to the Figma file here,
right here you can view
the design files for our project.
So again, this is a two-page website.
Where we've got a landing page has
a heading, a subheading with the date,
we've got two buttons,
we've got a navigation.
Page two is a speaker's page with a photo
for each speaker, name, company, and bio.
There's also a mobile responsive version
for these two pages, you'll see.
You can see also the navigation is now
gonna be a full page navigation on mobile,
we'll get to that towards
the end of this course.
And I've also included a design palette,
so
it has our two colors,
the font families, and
the type scale pixel values for
each of the two view port sizes.
I've also included a little bit of red
line design, or yellow line design
on some of these so you can see, they
might not match exactly the final design.
Of course if you're working with a design
team I'd recommend actually making sure
it's pixel perfect, but
these are just to kind of guide us today.
So feel free to refer
back to that as needed.
But let's go ahead and
actually fork and clone this.
So forking is gonna allow us to create
a copy of this under our own user.
So we're gonna go ahead and
click that button,
if you haven't already create a new fork.
I'm gonna fork off of my podcast
repository, don't tell my other co-hosts.
One note about this,
uncheck copy the main branch only.
This will give you access to
those five other branches that
I had mentioned with the code for
each chapter.
So then you can go ahead and
click Create Fork.
Once that is done, we can go ahead and
clone this to our local machine, right?
So there's this code dropdown here,
you can grab the HTTPS URL here.
If you feel lost, if you don't have
experience with Git, that is okay.
The README on the repository has
screenshots and examples, or
explanations on how you can proceed.
So I'm gonna copy this and
use the CLI, the terminal,
to clone, but
you can also use the GitHub desktop app.
So I'm gonna open my terminal on my Mac.
I'm gonna change directories to
my desktop just for ease of use.
Did I spell that right, yes.
And then I'm gonna write git clone,
and paste in that URL.
So now that that is done I should be
able to see it here on the desktop, and
I'm gonna drag that into my
Visual Studio Code editor.
So here we are, I'm gonna collapse
the source control panel, and
now we've got our folder here.
So let me put this in full screen mode,
let's take a quick look at what's in here.
So we've got the README of course,
with all the links.
And we've got our two HTML pages.
So we've got our index file,
which is our home page.
We've got our speakers file for
our speakers page.
And I should have all of the information
here that we're gonna need.
We've also got an icons folder with
some SVG code we'll use later.
And these are just the images for
the README file,
so we don't need to worry about those.
Everything else we're gonna be
creating together in real time, so
don't worry about missing certain things.
So there were a couple of things.
So back in the README,
there are a couple of plugins that
you're gonna wanna have installed.
So here if you're using Visual Studio
Code, there's an extension marketplace.
Live server is gonna be one that we're
going to use, so you can search for
it here.
This is gonna allow us to essentially hot
reload our HTML page when we save a file,
so it's gonna be much easier than
manually refreshing every single time
we save our CSS.
The other thing that you're gonna
wanna have installed is Prettier.
So it looks like this, Prettier,
it's a code formatter.
So we don't have to worry about making
sure we tab the correct amount to make
sure our code looks all pretty and
nice, you just can install this plugin.
And to get it to work properly I had
to edit my settings in that JSON file,
so to do that,
I have given you a code block here.
So it's gonna format on save, it's gonna
format our code whenever we save a file.
It's gonna format on a copy and paste.
And it's gonna set the default
formatter to HTML,
this is what I needed to get
it to work in our HTML file.
So I'm gonna copy this, I'm gonna open my
settings JSON file, on Mac that is CMD+P.
I type in this greater than symbol and
it's gonna be open defaults, or,
I'm sorry, open workplace settings JSON.
And I'm just gonna paste in
the code from the README here.
And so now to make sure that that is
working, let's say I go to my index file,
let's say I tab In this really indented,
right?
When I save, now you can see it
jumps back to its proper place,
so that's what Prettier is gonna do for
us.